README.md, before:

# Attention improved quantum state tomography

This repo contains all the codes used in the numerical experiments for the article "Enhancing general quantum state tomography via attention-based neural networks". 

In this project, we carry out a quantum state tomography task (QST) with a hybrid protocol, that combines a pre-processing step and a deep learning post-processing step. 

As of now, the classical reconstruction methods considered are linear inversion (LI) and maximum likelihood estimation (MLE .Standard code available soon).

## Project overview

The tomography pipeline consists of two main blocks:

1. pre-processing. In this step, we first generate  random density matrices,  and then we work out the associated born values, using a pre-selected set of operators (SIC-POVM, Pauli). Upon calculating them, we introduce a statistical approximation inside our data by using the multinomial function for the SIC-POVM, or Gaussian pointwise approximation for the Pauli basis. 

2. post-processing step. After the first reconstruction pass, we train a deep neural network model that learns a noise filtering function for the general space of density matrices (mixed or Haar-distributed-pure). In so doing, we factorize  our data previously worked out with LI(MLE) by using Cholesky decomposition. What the network learns, is a noise filter for the Cholesky matrices. A physical (positive semi-definite) density matrix can be recovered just by working out $\rho_{\rm nn} =\tfrac{C_{\rm nn}C_{\rm nn}^\dagger}{{\rm Tr}(C_{\rm nn}C_{\rm nn}^\dagger)}$


The deep learning model is a combination of 1D convolutional neural networks and a self-attention transformer. The project goal is doublefold: improve over the classical QST approach, by generating a full-fledge deep learning noise filter function, and second, achieve higher generalization ability, i.e. reducing the training data amount for the network model (see Fig.2 in the article).

All the codes are provided in a jupyter notebook, with commented markdown blocks. The commented notebooks are meant to be self-consistent and independent, in this way, help use them.
Soon, the inference step, plots function, together with the trained model used for the article, will be uploaded.


# REPO STRUCTURE

- [x] In the **/basis** folder, the files with the the different basis and the dual basis used to generate the datasets. In the "/4-qubits" folder, the 4 qubits basis and dual basis obtained from tensor products of local SIC-POVM and 4 qubits Pauli operators. In the "/square-root-povm" the global square-root POVM of dimension d=3,9.


- [x] In the **/pre-processing** folder is loaded the data-generation-b.npy file. This file generates the dataset of random density matrices by using the "brute force" Linear Inversion reconstruction function. The linear inversion (LI) reconstruction method makes use of the differet dual basis (saved in separeated files) previously generated.  The LI outputs make up for the training/validation/testing datasets for the network numerical experiments. 


- [x] The **/model** folder contains the notebook with the neural network code. Inside the notebook is possible to find explication of the paramater settings used during the different experiments (benchmarking mixed states, OAT reconstruction).

- [x] In the **/Inference** folder, it is possible to find the pre-trianed model used to generate the plots in Fig.3, and the data for panel (a),(c) thereof.

## Dependecies

- Jupyter notebook => 4.6.3 
- numpy => 1.18
- torch 2.0.1
- scikit learn 0.22.1
- qutip 4.7.0
- cuda 11.7 
>(virtualenv or conda installation command: pip3 install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu117)
> for model of small dimension,  ${\rm dim}(\mathcal{H})\leq 10$, cpu will suffices.

- matplotlib > 3.0
  
<amacarone@icfo.net>

Commit message:

new folder with OOD plots in the main test

README.md, after:

# Attention improved quantum state tomography

This repo contains all the codes used in the numerical experiments for the article "Enhancing general quantum state tomography via attention-based neural networks". 

In this project, we carry out a quantum state tomography task (QST) with a hybrid protocol, that combines a pre-processing step and a deep learning post-processing step. 

As of now, the classical reconstruction methods considered are linear inversion (LI) and maximum likelihood estimation (MLE .Standard code available soon).

## Project overview

The tomography pipeline consists of two main blocks:

1. pre-processing. In this step, we first generate  random density matrices,  and then we work out the associated born values, using a pre-selected set of operators (SIC-POVM, Pauli). Upon calculating them, we introduce a statistical approximation inside our data by using the multinomial function for the SIC-POVM, or Gaussian pointwise approximation for the Pauli basis. 

2. post-processing step. After the first reconstruction pass, we train a deep neural network model that learns a noise filtering function for the general space of density matrices (mixed or Haar-distributed-pure). In so doing, we factorize  our data previously worked out with LI(MLE) by using Cholesky decomposition. What the network learns, is a noise filter for the Cholesky matrices. A physical (positive semi-definite) density matrix can be recovered just by working out $\rho_{\rm nn} =\tfrac{C_{\rm nn}C_{\rm nn}^\dagger}{{\rm Tr}(C_{\rm nn}C_{\rm nn}^\dagger)}$


The deep learning model is a combination of 1D convolutional neural networks and a self-attention transformer. The project goal is doublefold: improve over the classical QST approach, by generating a full-fledge deep learning noise filter function, and second, achieve higher generalization ability, i.e. reducing the training data amount for the network model (see Fig.2 in the article).

All the codes are provided in a jupyter notebook, with commented markdown blocks. The commented notebooks are meant to be self-consistent and independent, in this way, help use them.
Soon, the inference step, plots function, together with the trained model used for the article, will be uploaded.


# REPO STRUCTURE

- [x] In the **/basis** folder, the files with the the different basis and the dual basis used to generate the datasets. In the "/4-qubits" folder, the 4 qubits basis and dual basis obtained from tensor products of local SIC-POVM and 4 qubits Pauli operators. In the "/square-root-povm" the global square-root POVM of dimension d=3,9.


- [x] In the **/pre-processing** folder is loaded the data-generation-b.npy file. This file generates the dataset of random density matrices by using the "brute force" Linear Inversion reconstruction function. The linear inversion (LI) reconstruction method makes use of the differet dual basis (saved in separeated files) previously generated.  The LI outputs make up for the training/validation/testing datasets for the network numerical experiments. 


- [x] The **/model** folder contains the notebook with the neural network code. Inside the notebook is possible to find explication of the paramater settings used during the different experiments (benchmarking mixed states, OAT reconstruction).

- [x] In the **/Inference** folder, it is possible to find the pre-trianed model used to generate the plots in Fig.3, and the data for panel (a),(c) thereof.

- [x] In **/OOD plots** the source code used to prepare and generate the plots for the complete OOD test, where sampling, depolarizatoin, and measurement noise are considered altogether.

## Dependecies

- Jupyter notebook => 4.6.3 
- numpy => 1.18
- torch 2.0.1
- scikit learn 0.22.1
- qutip 4.7.0
- cuda 11.7 
>(virtualenv or conda installation command: pip3 install torch torchvision torchaudio --index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu117)
> for model of small dimension,  ${\rm dim}(\mathcal{H})\leq 10$, cpu will suffices.

- matplotlib > 3.0
  
<amacarone@icfo.net>
